Overview Visa Inc., which we refer to as Visa or the Company, is a global payments technology company that connects consumers, businesses, banks and governments in more than 200 countries and territories to fast, secure and reliable electronic payments. We operate one of the world's most advanced processing networks, VisaNet, offering fraud protection for consumers and assured payment for merchants. Our business primarily consists of the following: •we own, manage and promote a portfolio of well-known, widely-accepted payment brands, including Visa, Visa Electron, PLUS and Interlink, which we license to our clients for use in their payment programs; •we offer a wide range of branded payments product platforms, which our clients, primarily financial institutions, use to develop and offer credit, debit, prepaid and cash access programs, as well as digital, mobile and eCommerce platforms for their customers (individuals, businesses and government entities); •we provide transaction processing and value-added services to our clients through VisaNet, Visa Debit Processing Services, Visa Processing Services, CyberSource, PlaySpan and Fundamo; and •we promote and enforce a common set of operating regulations adhered to by our clients to ensure the efficient and secure functioning of our payments network and the maintenance and promotion of our brands. To ensure our long-term success and the success of our clients: •we invest in new services and processing platforms to facilitate more convenient and innovative payment methods, such as mobile payments, money transfer and eCommerce; and •we continually improve the speed, efficiency, security and performance of our network and our payments services to enhance the reliability of our global processing infrastructure and protect the security of cardholder information. We operate an open-loop payments network, a multi-party system in which Visa connects issuing financial institutions, or issuers, that issue cards to cardholders, and acquiring financial institutions, or acquirers, that have the banking relationship with merchants—and manage the exchange of information and value between them. As such, we do not issue cards, extend credit, or collect, assess or set cardholder fees or interest charges. In most instances, cardholder and merchant relationships belong to, and are managed by, our network of financial institution clients. We derive revenues primarily from fees paid by our clients based on payments volume, transactions that we process and other related services that we provide. Business developments in fiscal 2012 included the following: •Regulation. New rules were implemented in the United States with respect to debit products under the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act regulates, among other things, interchange fees, the debit networks issuers make available, merchants' choices among these networks and transaction routing. These regulations resulted in our renegotiating some portions of client contracts. See Government Regulation below. •U.S. Debit Strategy. We have designed or implemented several modifications to our U.S. debit strategy to ensure compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act. •Interchange. We established new debit interchange rate structures, effective October 2011 and revised in April 2012, for the Visa Consumer Check card, Interlink and Small Business Debit. Two distinct interchange schedules were established: one for exempt issuers and products and a second for regulated issuers and products. In addition, in order to ensure that transactions within a U.S. territory, transactions between U.S. territories, and transactions between the U.S. and U.S. territories receive the applicable, regulated interchange rate, we established two new inter-regional schedules for regulated debit card and Interlink transactions. •Certification Program. In order to correctly identify regulated issuers, their exempt products and their compliance with the Federal Reserve's fraud prevention standards, we implemented a 4Table of Contentscertification process for regulated issuers. The program enables issuers to accurately register their exempt and non-exempt portfolios and to certify their compliance with these rules and criteria. In July 2012, the Federal Reserve announced its final fraud prevention standards, including clarifying the requirement that issuers notify their payment networks of their compliance with the final fraud standard (rather than “certify” such compliance).•Rule Changes. We implemented changes to our Operating Regulations to the extent necessary to support the ability of issuers to enable unaffiliated payment card networks on Visa debit cards issued in the U.S. or U.S. territories, as well as to enable Visa-owned debit networks on non-Visa debit cards. •Fees. We restructured our acquirer pricing and implemented a fixed fee and lowered our variable per transaction fees. These changes are intended to increase our competitiveness and incent merchants to route more transactions over the Visa network. •PAVD: We implemented programs to ensure that Visa debit issuers were capable of validating and authorizing PIN Authenticated Visa Debit transactions for any merchants choosing to route Visa Debit transactions to Visa using PIN authentication.•Merchant Litigation Settlement. We reached a reasonable outcome that ensures the long-term health and competitiveness of the payments industry in the United States, subject to final court approval and the adjudication of any appeals. Visa will prepare for implementation in the early part of 2013. See Item 1A—Risk Factors—Our retrospective responsibility plan may not adequately insulate us from the impact of settlements or final judgments. and Item 8—Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 21—Legal Matters.•Client Contracts. We continued to take steps to solidify our foundation for long-term growth by successfully executing several major client contracts throughout the year.•Ongoing Growth. The progress towards economic recovery and secular shift from cash and checks to electronic payments helped to drive double-digit percentage growth across our three primary revenue drivers—payments volume, cross-border volume and Visa-processed transactions—which contributed to our 13% growth in year-over-year net operating revenues for fiscal 2012.•2012 Olympic Games: For this year's Summer Olympic Games in London, Visa engaged a record number of clients in its sponsorship program, with more than 1,000 financial institutions and merchants across more than 70 geographies worldwide, activating Olympic-related activities, including a large portion from priority growth markets. Industry OverviewWe operate in the global payments industry, which is undergoing a powerful secular shift towards electronic payments, whether delivered in physical, card-based form or virtually via mobile or eCommerce platforms, and away from paper-based payments, such as cash and checks. For more than 50 years, we have played a central role in driving this migration by providing payment products and services that we believe deliver significant benefits to consumers, businesses, governments and merchants. We believe that consumers are increasingly attracted to the convenience, security, enhanced services and rewards associated with electronic payment forms. We also believe that corporations and governments are shifting to electronic payments to improve efficiency, control and security, and that a growing number of merchants are accepting electronic payments to improve sales and customer convenience.  The global payments industry consists of all forms of payment and value transfer, including: •paper-based payments: cash, personal checks, money orders, government checks, travelers cheques and other paper-based means of transferring value; •card-based payments: credit cards, charge cards, debit cards, deferred debit cards, ATM cards, prepaid cards, private label cards and other types of general-purpose and limited-use cards; •eCommerce payments: electronic payments through desktop and laptop computers, tablets and other devices with web browsing capabilities;•mobile payments: electronic payments through mobile phones and other handheld devices using a variety of applications such as text messages, mobile billing, web browsers or applications, contactless readers, and other means; and 5Table of Contents•other electronic payments: wire transfers, electronic benefits transfers, automated clearing house payments and other forms of electronic payment not typically tied to a payment card or similar access device. The most common card-based forms of payment are general purpose cards, which offer widespread merchant acceptance. General purpose cards are typically categorized as: •“pay now” cards, such as debit cards, which enable the cardholder to purchase goods and services by an automatic debit to a checking, demand deposit or other account with accessible funds; •“pay later” cards, such as credit, deferred debit and charge cards, which typically permit a cardholder to carry a balance in a revolving credit or deferred debit account or require payment of the full balance within a specified period; and •“pay before” cards, such as prepaid cards, which are pre-funded up to a certain monetary value. Primary card brands include Visa, MasterCard, American Express, JCB, and Discover/Diners Club. While these brands, including Visa, were historically associated with consumer credit or charge cards in the United States and other major international markets, we and others have, over time, broadened our offerings to include debit, ATM, prepaid and commercial payment products. Our Core Operations We derive revenues primarily from fees paid by our clients based on payments volume, transactions that we process and other related services we provide. Our clients deliver Visa products and payment services to consumers and merchants based on product platforms we define and manage. Payments network management is a core part of our operations, as it ensures that our payments system provides a safe, efficient, consistent and interoperable service to cardholders, merchants and financial institutions worldwide. Transaction Processing ServicesProcessing Infrastructure We own and operate VisaNet, which consists of multiple synchronized processing centers, including two data centers in the United States. In addition, Visa Europe, which is under separate ownership, operates processing centers in the United Kingdom. These are part of our synchronized system, in accordance with the terms of our Framework Agreement with Visa Europe. These centers are linked by a global telecommunications network and are engineered for redundancy. Intelligent access points around the world complete our global processing infrastructure and enable merchants and financial institutions worldwide to access our core processing and value-added services. VisaNet is built on a centralized architecture, enabling us to view and analyze each authorization transaction we process in real time and to provide value-added information, including information products, such as risk scoring and loyalty applications, while the transaction data is being routed through our system. Visa also owns and manages additional data centers in the United States and internationally, including those we added with our acquisitions of CyberSource and PlaySpan. These secure facilities allow for high availability transaction services and connectivity to the Internet, clients and processing partners. Core Processing Services Our core processing services involve the routing of payment information and related data to facilitate the authorization, clearing and settlement of transactions between Visa issuers and acquirers. In addition, we offer a range of value-added processing services to support our clients' Visa programs and to promote the growth and security of our payments network. Authorization is the process of approving or declining a transaction before a purchase is finalized or cash is disbursed. Clearing is the process of delivering final transaction data from an acquirer to an issuer for posting to the cardholder's account, the calculation of certain fees and charges that apply to the issuer and acquirer involved in the transaction, and the conversion of transaction amounts to the appropriate settlement currencies. Settlement is the process of calculating, determining, reporting and transferring the net financial position of our issuers and acquirers for all transactions that are cleared. 6Table of ContentsThe issuer and acquirer involved in a typical Visa transaction perform additional functions that we do not generally perform or monitor. For example, the acquirer credits the merchant's account for the amount of the transaction less any fees the acquirer charges in accordance with the contractual agreement between the merchant and the acquirer. In addition, the issuer sends a statement to the cardholder and collects payment, in the case of a credit or deferred debit card, or collects payment directly from the cardholder's deposit account, in the case of a debit card. We process most Visa transactions occurring in the United States. We also process most Visa transactions where the issuer and the merchant are located in different countries, which we refer to as cross-border transactions. In countries outside the United States, processing of domestic Visa transactions varies. In some countries, such as Canada and Brazil, Visa processes the majority of transactions. In many other countries, transactions may be processed outside of our systems, generally by government-controlled payments networks, our clients, independent companies or joint ventures owned in whole or in part by our clients. We perform clearing and settlement through VisaNet for transactions involving an issuer that is located in Visa Europe's region and an acquirer that is located in the rest of the world, or vice versa. Visa Europe authorizes, clears and settles transactions for its members through its own processing system.Other Value-Added Processing Services We offer a range of other value-added services in certain countries, including risk management, issuer processing, loyalty, dispute management, value-added information and CyberSource-branded services. Risk Management Services. We provide clients in certain countries with a number of value-added risk-management services. These services, including Visa Advanced Authorization, provide preventive, monitoring, investigative and predictive tools, which are intended to mitigate and help eliminate fraud at the cardholder and merchant level. Issuer Processing Services. Visa Debit Processing Services, or DPS, provides comprehensive issuer processing services for participating U.S. issuers of Visa debit, prepaid and ATM payment products. In addition to core issuer authorization processing, DPS offers card management services, exception processing, PIN and ATM network gateways, call center services, fraud detection services and ATM terminal driving. Visa Processing Service, or VPS, provides credit, debit and prepaid issuer processing services, including multi-currency processing functionality, outside the United States. Loyalty Services. We offer loyalty services, which allow our clients to differentiate their Visa program offerings, enhance the attractiveness of their Visa payment programs and strengthen their relationships with cardholders and merchants. Dispute Management Services. We manage Visa Resolve Online, an automated web-based service that allows our clients' back-office analysts and client service representatives to manage and resolve Visa transaction disputes more efficiently than with paper-based processes. Value-Added Information Services. We provide our clients with a range of additional information-based business analytics and applications, as well as the transaction data and associated infrastructure required to support them. CyberSource-branded services. We provide technology and services that make it easier for eCommerce merchants to accept, process and reconcile payments, manage fraud, and safeguard payment security online. CyberSource brings these payment management solutions to market on two platforms: CyberSource Enterprise services, targeting medium and large-sized enterprise businesses; and Authorize.Net, targeting smaller businesses with less than $3 million in annual online sales.  Product Platforms We offer a broad range of product platforms that enable our clients to build differentiated, competitive payment programs for their consumer, business, government and merchant clients. Our principal payment platforms enable credit, debit, prepaid and cash access programs, as well as virtual, mobile and eCommerce payments for consumers, businesses and government entities. Our payment platforms are offered under our Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS brands. Consumer Credit 7Table of ContentsOur consumer credit product platforms allow our issuers to offer deferred payment and financing products that can be customized to meet the needs of all consumer segments. Our baseline consumer credit platform is marketed to our issuers as Visa Classic or Visa Traditional. In addition, we offer a range of premium credit platforms that enable our issuers to tailor programs to consumers requiring higher credit lines or enhanced benefits, such as loyalty programs. Our premium consumer credit platforms are marketed to issuers, and in some cases, to cardholders, as Visa Gold, Visa Platinum, Visa Signature, Visa Signature Preferred and Visa Infinite. Consumer Deposit Access Our deposit access product platforms enable our issuers to offer consumer payment and cash access products that draw on consumers' deposit accounts, such as checking, demand deposit or other pre-funded accounts. Consumer Debit. Our primary consumer debit platform in the United States and many other countries uses the Visa brand mark. Depending on local marketplace point of sale practices, Visa Debit transactions can be authenticated by a cardholder's signature, or no signature if the transaction is for a small purchase amount, or by personal identification number, or PIN, or other means of authentication. In the United States, in addition to the Visa debit product, we also provide the Interlink debit product platform. Interlink is a PIN-always, single message platform generally for U.S. domestic transactions. U.S. issuers can choose to enable Interlink as a PIN network on a Visa debit card, and U.S. merchants can choose Interlink as a PIN-always point of sale acceptance option. Additionally, Interlink can remain as a routing alternative on both Visa and non-Visa branded debit cards. Our clients in Asia Pacific, or AP, Latin America and Caribbean, or LAC, and Central and Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa, or CEMEA, can use the Visa Electron debit platform, which requires all transactions initiated from the card to be authorized electronically. It is primarily used by issuers offering payment programs to higher-risk client segments or in countries where electronic authorization is less prevalent. Prepaid. Our prepaid product platform enables issuers to offer products that access a pre-funded amount, allowing cardholders to enjoy the convenience and security of a payment card in lieu of cash or checks. Our prepaid platform includes general purpose reloadable, gift, travel, youth, payroll, money transfer, corporate incentive, insurance reimbursement and government benefits cards. Cash Access. Our clients can provide global cash access to their cardholders by issuing products accepted at Visa and PLUS branded ATMs. Most Visa and Visa Electron branded cards offer cash access at ATMs, as well as at branches of our participating financial institution clients. The PLUS brand may also be included on issuers' non-Visa branded cards to offer international cash access as a complement to domestic cash access services. Commercial Our commercial product platforms enable small businesses, medium and large companies, and government organizations to streamline payment processes, manage total spend, access information reporting, automate their supply chain and reduce administrative costs. Small Businesses. We provide tools and resources to small business owners to help them securely manage payments and receivables through our debit, credit and acceptance solutions. Visa Business Electron is an electronic authorization platform used in many countries outside North America. Large and Medium Companies. The Visa Corporate platform offers payment options for business-to-business and employee travel and entertainment charges, including cash advances, providing detailed transaction data as well as information and expense management tools. The Visa Purchasing platform provides card and non-card electronic payment products that allow companies to easily procure goods and services, while streamlining resource- and paper-intensive purchase order and invoice processing. Through Syncada, our joint venture with US Bank, we market an integrated invoice processing, payment and financing platform for financial institutions to offer to their corporate and government commercial clients around the world. Government Organizations. In addition to the products mentioned above, we offer government organizations unique information- and expense-management tools, employee-fraud and misuse-management tools and strategic sourcing tools for their card programs. In certain countries, we offer specialized commercial products for specific government-sponsored programs, typically targeting agriculture, small-business, freight or construction loan programs. Product Platform Innovation 8Table of ContentsOur fundamental approach to innovation focuses on enhancing our current product platforms, enabling more Visa transactions in every channel, and extending the utility of our products and services to access points, such as eCommerce and mobile, and new merchant segments and geographies. We invest in innovation, because we believe we can drive more secure, accessible and versatile payment program options for clients, merchants and consumers. We focus on new payment channels, payment technologies, payment account access devices and authentication methods. We have recently made significant investments in the development of eCommerce and mobile payment platforms, contact and contactless chip cards and devices, card product enhancements, authentication and security technologies and platforms; and money transfer. We have the following initiatives: •Acquisitions. Our acquisitions of CyberSource, PlaySpan and Fundamo are allowing us to execute our innovation strategy. For example, CyberSource is helping drive eCommerce internationally, PlaySpan has accelerated our participation in the fast-growing digital goods space, and Fundamo is supporting our unique partnership with the Rwandan Government to drive access to financial services for consumers in that country.•Partnerships. In mature markets, we have licensed our mobile NFC payment technology to third-party wallet providers to help ensure their solutions are enabled with Visa payment functionality. In addition, we have signed agreements with several mobile operators to extend payment functionality to mobile subscribers.•Product Innovations:•V.me by Visa: We have developed our new digital wallet service, V.me, to enhance the ease of use for consumers and merchants in online payments. V.me is available in beta for consumer enrollment and online merchant checkout in the United States, and the V.me acceptance mark is now visible on more than twenty merchant sites.•Visa payWave: We have certified NFC-enabled smartphones from device manufacturers for use with our mobile payment application, Visa payWave.•Visa Mobile Provisioning Services: We have developed a new service that enables banks and operators to securely provision mobile payment accounts on NFC-enabled smartphones. •Visa Mobile Prepaid: We have introduced a new product based on Fundamo technology, bringing Visa-quality payments to unbanked consumers in developing markets.Payments Network Management We devote significant resources to ensuring that Visa is the payments network of choice for clients, merchants and cardholders. We seek to accomplish this by promoting our brand through marketing and sponsorship activities, educating domestic and regulatory banking authorities on our capabilities, increasing acceptance of Visa products around the world and ensuring that the system operates reliably and securely for all of our network participants. Brand Management, Marketing and Corporate Reputation We engage in a variety of activities designed to maintain and enhance the value of our brand, taking a targeted, analytical approach tailored by geography to achieve our growth and business objectives. We combine advertising, sponsorships, promotions, public relations and, increasingly, social media to create programs that build active preference for products carrying our brand, promote product usage, increase product acceptance and support cardholder acquisition and retention. For merchants, we work to ensure that the Visa brand represents timely and guaranteed payment, as well as a way to increase sales. For our issuer clients, our marketing program is designed to support their card issuance, activation and usage efforts while complementing and enhancing the value of their own brands. Sponsorship is a specific area where we have invested in developing global marketing relationships to promote the Visa brand. For instance, we have been the exclusive payment services sponsor for the Olympic Games since 1986 and have extended that sponsorship through 2020. We are also one of six FIFA partners providing us with worldwide exclusive access to the FIFA World Cup™ and more than 40 other FIFA competitions. These sponsorships create a powerful opportunity to drive business, achieve maximum exposure and improve brand lift, global reach and local relevance. In addition, we engage in marketing and sponsorship activities with other regional, national and local companies, sports leagues and events, such as the National Football League in the United States, and with associations and companies, to provide customized marketing platforms to clients in certain countries and regions. 9Table of ContentsOur client and merchant marketing activities bring added value through the development of marketing programs designed to drive their specific business objectives. For merchant clients, these programs generate awareness for new acceptance channels and locations and increase cardholder spending and merchant sales revenue through special offers and promotions. For issuer clients, our marketing programs support their card issuance, activation and usage efforts while complementing and enhancing the value of their own brands. In addition, we work on various fronts to maintain, enhance and protect our corporate reputation and brand. Our Corporate Responsibility program helps ensure we positively impact the lives of those in our global and local communities. We do so by expanding financial inclusion and literacy, providing humanitarian aid and community support, and engaging in responsible business practices. We continue to promote an understanding of Visa's role as a payments network and articulate the ways that electronic payments can advance economic empowerment, remove friction from commerce and increase government efficiencies. To that end, Currency of Progress, our corporate reputation campaign launched in October 2009, communicates the tangible benefits that Visa and electronic payments deliver to individuals, businesses, governments and economies.Merchant Acceptance Initiatives We aim to maintain and expand our merchant base by focusing on the needs of merchants and consumers and enhancing our programs to increase acceptance in attractive and fast-growing segments, such as bill payment. Our efforts to address these needs include supporting the development of technological innovations, delivering value-added information services, and evaluating potential modifications to our operating rules and interchange rates to enhance the value of our payments network compared to other forms of payment. For example, we raised the limit for our “no signature required” program from $25 to $50 for U.S. discount stores and grocery stores/supermarkets, enabling more face-to-face merchants to accept Visa cards for transactions without requiring a cardholder signature, PIN or providing a receipt unless requested by the cardholder. This program can increase speed at the point of sale, enhance consumer satisfaction and deliver operating efficiencies for merchants. We also enter into arrangements with certain merchants under which they receive monetary incentives and rebates for acceptance of products carrying our brands and increasing their payments volume of products carrying our brands or indicating a preference for our products. Client Standards Rulemaking and Enforcement. In general, our clients are granted licenses to use our brands and to access our transaction processing systems. Our clients are obligated to honor our rules and standards through agreements with, and in certain cases non-equity membership interests in, our subsidiaries. These rules and standards relate to such matters as the use of our brands and trademarks; the standards, design and features of payment cards, devices and programs; processing; merchant acquiring activities, including use of agents; disputes between members; risk management; settlement indemnification; client financial failures and allocation of losses among clients. We establish and administer dispute management procedures between clients relating to specific transactions. For example, after a transaction is presented to an issuer, the issuer may determine that the transaction is invalid for a variety of reasons, including fraud. If the issuer believes there is a defect in a transaction, the issuer may return the transaction to the acquirer, an action termed a “chargeback.” We enforce rules relating to chargebacks and maintain a dispute resolution process with respect to chargeback disputes. Credit Risk Management. We indemnify issuers and acquirers for any settlement loss suffered due to the failure of another issuer or acquirer to fund its daily settlement obligations. In certain instances, we may indemnify clients even in situations in which a transaction is not processed by our system. We have incurred no material loss related to settlement risk in recent years. See Item 1A—Risk Factors—We risk loss or insolvency if our clients fail to fund settlement obligations for which we have provided indemnifications. To manage our exposure in the event our clients fail to fund their settlement obligations, we established a credit risk policy with a formalized set of credit standards and risk control measures. We regularly evaluate clients with significant settlement exposure to assess risk. In certain instances, we may require a client to post collateral or provide other guarantees. If a client becomes unable or unwilling to meet its obligations, we are able to draw upon such collateral or guarantee in order to minimize any potential loss. We may also apply other risk control measures, such as blocking the authorization and settlement of transactions, limiting the use of certain types of agents, prohibiting initiation of acquiring relationships with certain high-risk merchants or suspending or terminating a client's rights to participate in our payments network. The exposure to settlement losses through our indemnification 10Table of Contentsis accounted for as a settlement risk guarantee. The fair value of the settlement risk guarantee is estimated using our proprietary model, which considers statistically derived loss factors based on historical experience, estimated settlement exposures at period end and a standardized grading process for clients (using, where available, third-party estimates of the probability of customer failure). See Item 8—Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 12—Settlement Guarantee Management elsewhere in this report. Payment System Integrity The integrity of our payments system is affected by fraudulent activity and other illegal uses of our products. Fraud is most often committed in connection with counterfeit cards or card-not-present transactions using stolen account information resulting from security breaches of systems not associated with VisaNet that store, process or transmit cardholder or account data, including systems operated by merchants, financial institutions and other third-party data processors. Our fraud detection and prevention offerings include: •Verified by Visa, a global Internet authentication product, which permits cardholders to authenticate themselves to their issuing financial institution using a unique personal code; •Visa Advanced Authorization, which provides enhanced fraud detection capability by adding real-time risk scores to authorization messages; •Chip technologies, embedded microprocessors that provide enhanced security and reduce the incidence of counterfeit card fraud. As a result, Visa has created incentives for merchants and issuers to adopt them, including in the United States. Chip technologies can also carry other applications that enhance the consumer payment experience; and •CyberSource's Decision Manager solution, which provides access to over 200 validation tests to assess the legitimacy of card-not-present orders. We work with all participants in the payment system to ensure that any entity that transmits, processes or stores sensitive card information takes necessary steps to secure that data and protect cardholders. For example, we mandate protection of PIN data through use of the Triple Data Encryption Standard and work with the payments industry to manage the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards (PCI DSS). There has been significant progress in growing industry adoption of PCI DSS, with more than 97% percent of the largest U.S. merchants validating compliance annually. Government Regulation General. Government regulation affects key aspects of our business. Our clients are also subject to numerous regulations applicable to banks and other financial institutions in the United States and elsewhere, and consequently such regulations have the potential to affect our business indirectly. In recent years, our business has come under increasing regulatory scrutiny. See Item 1A—Risk Factors—Increased global regulatory focus on the payments industry may result in costly new compliance burdens on our clients and on us, leading to increased costs and decreased payments volume and revenues.The Dodd-Frank Act. As noted, during the 2011 fiscal year, the U.S. Federal Reserve established new rules under the Dodd-Frank Act affecting interchange reimbursement fees, network exclusivity and transaction routing. We expect these rules, which include provisions effective in our fiscal 2012 and 2013, to continue to have an adverse impact on our pricing, reduce the number and volume of U.S. debit payments we process and decrease associated revenues. See Item 1A—Risk Factors—The Dodd-Frank Act may continue to have a material, adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business and Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Overview. We have significantly modified our debit strategy as a result. See —Overview.Interchange Reimbursement Fees. We have historically set default interchange reimbursement fees in the United States and many other geographies. The new rules under the Dodd-Frank Act set the maximum U.S. debit interchange reimbursement fee assessed for cards issued by large financial institutions at twenty-one cents plus five basis points, before applying a fraud adjustment of up to an additional one cent. This amounts to a significant reduction from the average system-wide fees charged previously. See Item 1A—Risk Factors—The Dodd-Frank Act may continue to have a material, adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business; and Item 1A—Risk Factors—Additional regulation of interchange 11Table of Contentsreimbursement fees may have a material, adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. The United States is not the only jurisdiction to regulate debit interchange reimbursement fees. For example, the Reserve Bank of Australia has enacted a regulation limiting the costs that can be considered in setting interchange reimbursement fees for both our credit and our debit cards. Interchange reimbursement fees represent a transfer of value among the financial institutions participating in an open-loop payments network such as ours. On purchase transactions, interchange reimbursement fees are paid to issuers by acquirers in connection with transactions initiated from products in our payments system. We generally do not receive any portion of interchange reimbursement fees in a transaction. They are, however, a factor on which we compete with other payments providers and are therefore an important determinant of the volume of transactions we process. Default interchange reimbursement fees are an important driver of system volume and value. They promote the efficient operation of our payments network by enabling both the issuer and the acquirer to understand the economics of a given transaction before entering into it and by giving our clients an alternative to negotiating transfer pricing with each other. By establishing and modifying default interchange rates in response to marketplace conditions and strategic demands, we seek to ensure a competitive value proposition for transactions using our cards in order to encourage electronic transactions and to maximize participation in the Visa payments system by issuers and acquirers and, ultimately, consumers and merchants. We believe that proper management of interchange rates benefits consumers, merchants, our financial institution clients and us by promoting the overall growth of our payments network in competition with other payment card systems and other forms of payment, and by creating incentives for innovation, enhanced data quality and security. Merchants do not directly pay interchange reimbursement fees. A merchant's cost of acceptance is determined by its acquirer and is called a merchant discount or merchant discount rate. The merchant discount typically covers the costs that acquirers incur for participation in open-loop payments networks, including those relating to interchange, and compensates them for various other services they provide to merchants. Merchant discount rates and other merchant fees are set by our acquirers without our involvement and by agreement with their merchant clients and are established in competition with other acquirers, other payment card systems and other forms of payment. We do not establish or regulate the level of merchant discount rates or any other fees charged by our acquirers. In some cases, such as India, the governing authorities have regulated the merchant discount rate itself, rather than the interchange reimbursement fee. Network Exclusivity and Routing. We have historically had agreements with some issuers under which they agree to issue certain payment cards that use only the Visa network or receive incentives if they do so. In addition, issuers of some debit products outside the United States have historically chosen to include only the Visa network. We refer to these various practices as network exclusivity. The Dodd-Frank Act limits our and issuers' ability to impose rules for, or choose various forms of, network exclusivity and preferred routing in the debit area. See Item 1A—The Dodd-Frank Act may continue to have a material, adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business.As another example, the Canadian Ministry of Finance has implemented a voluntary Code of Conduct for payment card industry participants, with which Visa has agreed to comply. Among other things, the Code of Conduct prohibits certain restrictions on merchants' choice of payment options they will accept. See Item 1A—Risk Factors—Additional regulations that prohibit us from contracting with clients or requiring them to use only our network, or that deny them the option of selecting only our network, may decrease the number of transactions we process, materially and adversely affecting our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business.Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. The Dodd-Frank Act created a new independent Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, with responsibility for most federal consumer protection laws in the area of financial services and new authority with respect to consumer protection issues, including those pertaining to us to some extent. The bureau's future actions may make payment card transactions less attractive to card issuers, consumers and merchants by further regulating the industry. No-Surcharge Rules. We have historically implemented policies that prohibit merchants from charging higher prices to consumers who pay using Visa instead of other means. Some local jurisdictions have taken steps to limit these no-surcharge rules. For example, the Reserve Bank of Australia enacted a regulation that prohibited us from enforcing our no-surcharge policy and effectively allowed merchants to impose discretionary surcharges on Visa 12Table of Contentstransactions without limitation. Recently, the Reserve Bank of Australia, while reinforcing its position that surcharging is appropriate in that market, has taken steps that would allow us to limit the level of surcharges that merchants can impose. Additionally, in the United States there are ten states that prohibit the use of the surcharge as an anti-consumer practice through their state legislatures. Data Protection and Information Security. We devote substantial resources to maintain and to continually refine our information security program in order to comply with U.S. federal and state and foreign regulations safeguarding cardholder information and requiring consumer notification in the event of a security breach. In addition, the U.S. Federal Financial Institution Examination Council periodically reviews certain of our operations in the United States to examine our compliance with data integrity, security and operational requirements and standards, as well as other requirements applicable to us because of our role as a service provider to financial institutions. Anti-Money Laundering, Anti-Terrorism and Sanctioned Countries. In response to U.S. and other regulations, we devote substantial resources to maintain and to continually refine a program to prevent the use of our payments system to facilitate money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities. We also prohibit from being Visa members all financial institutions that are domiciled in countries sanctioned by the U.S. Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control—currently Cuba, Iran, Syria and Sudan. In addition, we refrain from any financial dealings with restricted third parties, such as identified money-laundering fronts for terrorists and narcotics traffickers. Government-Imposed Market Participation Influences and Restrictions. Our business's reach remains limited by certain governments' influence on domestic payments competition and/or protection of domestic payment card providers or payment processing providers. Most notably, none of our financial institution clients in China have received authorization to issue cards carrying only our brands for domestic use in China, limiting our opportunities in that market. Regulators in an increasing number of countries around the world, including recently Thailand, Ukraine, the UAE, Mexico, Colombia and Russia, have received statutory authority to regulate certain aspects of the payments systems in these countries.Regulation of Internet Transactions. Many jurisdictions have adopted or are in the process of adopting new regulations and taxes on Internet transactions. Most notably, we have had to implement compliance programs in response to new U.S. regulations requiring the coding and blocking of payments for certain types of Internet gambling transactions. In addition, the U.S. Congress continues to consider regulatory initiatives in the areas of Internet prescription drug purchases, copyright and trademark infringement, and privacy, among others, that could impose additional compliance burdens on us and/or our clients. Some U.S. states are considering a variety of similar legislation. If implemented, these initiatives could require us or our clients to monitor, filter, restrict, or otherwise oversee various categories of payment card transactions, thereby increasing our costs or decreasing our transaction volumes. Various regulatory agencies also continue to examine a wide variety of issues, including identity theft, account management guidelines, privacy, disclosure rules, security and marketing that would affect our clients directly. These new requirements and developments may affect our clients' ability to extend credit by using payment cards, which could decrease our transaction volumes. In some circumstances, new regulations could have the effect of limiting our clients' ability to offer new types of payment programs or restricting their ability to offer our existing programs such as stored value cards. Intellectual Property We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, to protect our proprietary technology. We own a number of patents and patent applications relating to payments solutions, transaction processing, security systems and other matters. We own numerous valuable trademarks and designs, covering various brands, products, programs and services, which are essential to our business in multiple countries, including, but not limited to Visa, Interlink, PLUS, Visa Electron, the “Winged V” design, and the “Dove” design. Through agreements with our clients, we authorize and monitor the use of our trademarks in connection with their participation in our payments network. Competition We compete in the global payment marketplace against all forms of payment, including paper-based forms, principally cash and checks; card-based payments, including credit, charge, debit, ATM, prepaid, private-label and 13Table of Contentsother types of general purpose and limited-use cards; eCommerce and mobile-based platforms and other electronic payments, including wire transfers, electronic benefits transfers, automatic clearing house, or ACH, payments and electronic data interchange. Within the general purpose payment card industry, we face substantial and intense competition worldwide in the provision of payments services to financial institution clients and their cardholder merchants. The leading global card brands in the general purpose payment card industry are Visa, MasterCard, American Express, and Diners Club. Other general purpose card brands are more concentrated in specific geographic regions, such as JCB in Japan and Discover in the United States. In certain countries, our competitors have leading positions, such as UnionPay in China, which remains the sole domestic inter-bank bankcard processor and operates the sole domestic bankcard acceptance mark in China. We also compete against private-label cards, which can generally be used to make purchases solely at the sponsoring retail store, gasoline retailer or other merchant. In the debit card market segment, Visa and MasterCard are the primary global brands. In addition, our Interlink and Visa Electron brands compete with Maestro, owned by MasterCard, and various regional and country-specific debit network brands including STAR, NYCE, and PULSE in the United States, EFTPOS in Australia, NETS in Singapore, and Interac in Canada. In addition to our PLUS brand, the primary cash access card brands are Cirrus, owned by MasterCard, and many of the online debit network brands referenced above. In many countries, local debit brands are the primary brands, and our brands are used primarily to enable cross-border transactions, which typically constitute a small portion of overall transaction volume. As the payments landscape evolves, we may increasingly face competition from emerging players in the payment space, many of which are non-financial institution networks that have departed from the more traditional “bank-centric” business model. The emergence of these potentially competitive networks has primarily been via the online channel with a focus on eCommerce and/or mobile technologies. PayPal, Google and Isis are examples. These providers compete with Visa directly in some cases, yet may also be significant partners and customers of Visa.  Based on payments volume, total volume and number of transactions, Visa is the largest retail electronic payments network in the world. The following chart compares our network with those of our major general purpose payment network competitors for calendar year 2011: Company PaymentsVolume TotalVolume TotalTransactions Cards  (billions) (billions) (billions) (millions)Visa Inc.(1) $3,768 $6,029 77.6 2,011MasterCard 2,430 3,249 39.8 1,059American Express 808 822 5.3 97Discover 114 122 1.9 59JCB 160 166 1.4 77Diners Club 28 29 0.2 6(1) Visa Inc. figures as reported on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on February 8 and May 2, 2012, respectively. Visa figures represent total volume, payments volume and cash volume, and the number of payments transactions, cash transactions, accounts and cards for products carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Card counts include PLUS proprietary cards. Payments volume represents the aggregate dollar amount of purchases made with cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands for the relevant period. Total volume represents payments volume plus cash volume. The data presented is reported quarterly by Visa's clients on their operating certificates and is subject to verification by Visa. On occasion, clients may update previously submitted information. Sources: MasterCard, American Express, JCB and Diners Club data sourced from The Nilson Report issue 992 (April 2012). Includes all consumer and commercial credit, debit and prepaid cards. Some prior year figures have been restated. Currency figures are in U.S. dollars. MasterCard excludes Maestro and Cirrus figures. American Express includes figures for third-party issuers. JCB figures include third-party issuers and other payment-related products. Some figures are estimates. Diners Club figures are for the 12 months ended November 30, 2011. Discover data sourced from The Nilson Report issue 986 (January 2012)—U.S. data only and includes business from third-party issuers.14Table of ContentsFor more information on the concentration of our operating revenues and other financial information, see Item 8—Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 14—Enterprise-wide Disclosures and Concentration of Business included elsewhere in this report. Working Capital RequirementsPayments settlement due from and due to issuing and acquiring clients represents a substantial daily working capital requirement. U.S. dollar settlements are typically settled within the same day and do not result in a receivable or payable balance, while settlement currencies other than the U.S. dollar generally remain outstanding for one to two business days, consistent with industry practice for such transactions. SeasonalityWe generally do not experience any pronounced seasonality in our business. No individual quarter of fiscal 2012 or fiscal 2011 accounted for more than 30% of our fiscal 2012 or fiscal 2011 operating revenues.EmployeesAt September 30, 2012, we employed approximately 8,500 persons worldwide. We consider our relationships with our employees to be good.Additional Information and SEC ReportsVisa Inc. was incorporated as a Delaware corporation in May 2007. In October 2007, we undertook a reorganization of the global Visa enterprise. Prior to our reorganization, Visa operated as five corporate entities related by ownership and membership, each of which operated as a separate geographic region. As a result of the reorganization, all except Visa Europe became subsidiaries of Visa Inc. Visa Europe entered into a set of contractual arrangements with Visa Inc. in connection with the reorganization. We completed our initial public offering, or IPO, in March 2008.Our corporate Internet address is http://www.corporate.visa.com. On our investor relations page, accessible through our corporate website and at http://investor.visa.com, we make available, free of charge our annual reports on Forms 10-K, our quarterly reports on Forms 10-Q, our current reports on Forms 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The information contained on our website, including the information contained on our investor relations website, is not incorporated by reference into this report or any other report filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.